and all you have to do is avoid going
into youtube by tolerating boredom
and if you can avoid opening up
something on your computer loading up a
game like loading up whatever reddit
like whatever
right i use those because that's what i
get distracted with if you can just
learn to sit
with that boredom your mind will
naturally coalesce back into study
so there's a particular skill which if
you can
learn then you will be far far more
productive
and that skill is the ability to
tolerate boredom i know it sounds kind
of weird
but i want you guys to think a little
bit about the process of how you get
distracted
and where your days go okay so
this is where um so i want you guys to
think about
what's going on when you try to work
okay so like here's you
and then like here's the book oh god i
can't write a book
i can't draw a book this is a book okay
you're so you're trying to read a book
so you're looking at the book all right
and so generally speaking what happens
is your mind tends to be like
one pointed right so this is going to be
like a one pointed mind
and you're looking at the book for a few
seconds like let's say a minute or two
you're like reading the book
and then something interesting happens
your mind goes from this to like a
scatter
okay so this is one point in mind
and this is a scattered mind all right
so like you guys know what i mean like
you're
because you're like i'm reading the book
and then your mind is like oh
like let's think about random crap and
so then when your mind becomes scattered
then then what it
starts to do is it starts to go in like
all these different directions right
so it's going over here it's going over
here it's going over here and and then
what used to happen
is that over time you'd like your mind
would wander like five minutes would
pass you'd be sitting at a library
and then the mind eventually like
coalesces back into a one-pointed mind
and then you're focused on the book
again
and if we think about the process of
studying what it is is like it's like
focus mind and then it scatters again
and then it goes back to focused and
then it scatters again
and on good days you know your focused
mind is
is longer and then the scattering is
shorter
right so like generally speaking as you
study this is the pattern of mind
does that make sense so your mind kind
of coalesces and then it's like one
pointed again
and then you know there are some things
that can help this like you know
caffeine helps this process
usually unless you have too much you
know so like stimulant medication from
adhd helps this process
um and so there
are all kinds of things that can kind of
cause you to coalesce your mind
so we also taught um so another uh
important
part of this process is something called
dharana
and pratyahara so we've talked a little
bit about these
but that's not going to be our focus
today these we can sort of explore a
little bit later okay so dharuna's focus
so these are like meditation techniques
that train your mind to become one
pointed
pratyahara is sensory withdrawal so
these are practices
that um essentially cause you to
restrain the senses
so let's like think about this for a
second what are the things that shatter
um a one-pointed mind so like let's say
i'm studying the library
and then someone brings in like a plate
of barbecue
right so then like i smell the barbecue
and then my mind shatters
okay let's say that
i'm uh studying and um
you know like i hear a ping on my phone
someone just texted me
so bbq you know sound from phone
notification right so
and then what this does is shatters my
focus so the reason is because
my focus gets shattered by the indriyas
or the sense organs
so pratyahara is the practice of
restraining your sense organs so like
keeping your eyes focused on
what they should be focused on getting
your nose under control getting your
ears under control like basically
restraining your attention where you
want it
okay that's not the focus today so all
of these
are about moving from here
to here okay but what i'm gonna what
we're gonna focus on today is not moving
from here to here we're gonna focus on
this
phase right here because this is where a
lot of people kind of mess up
so let's think about what happens when
your mind is scattered
okay so the mind enjoys being focused
and the mind enjoys being entertained
so mind enjoys focus
right and if we think about mind
enjoying entertainment what is
entertainment
entertainment is simply a sensory
experience that
sort of makes it very easy for your mind
to be focused
so if i play a video game like like the
whole point of like playing dota is that
dota cos
causes my mind to coalesce into this
right video games do this so if we
really think about it what we see is
that our mind actually really enjoys
being focused like the common element
is that the mind appreciates focus and
then even when we
when we think about studying like i
don't know if you guys have had this
experience but like sometimes studying
can be fun like you're kind of in a
groove and you're like learning stuff
you know in your mind is kind of focused
it really enjoys that
so where does the problem rise like why
is studying so hard
studying is so hard because our mind
gets distracted right
and so it shatters into this again
and in this moment we're bored
because you like like i don't want to
study like your mind is like oh let's
look at the book let's look at the book
and then you're
like there's another part of your mind
that's like no i don't want to do that
and this is where i think that studying
has gotten so much harder for people
like we hear this so much more now
that you know video games are addictive
i'm addicted to youtube like i spend
hours watching youtube i have no
motivation etc
because now actually something existed
that didn't exist 30 years ago which is
algorithmic entertainment
so what used to be so like let's think
about like you know
like in the 1950s if i'm at the library
and i get distracted
what would my mind do i pull out my
comic book
and i read my comic book for like 10
minutes okay
and then eventually my mind kind of
scatters again and then i focus back on
studying
but now we have something that's like
way more devastating which is that when
we enter these board states
we log on to youtube we get on reddit
you know like we get on these things we
get on like let's say
you know instagram whatever twitter
and the problem is that these things are
not gonna
like occupy your attention so the comic
book occupies your attention let's say
for
20 minutes the problem is that the
second you open these up you're gone for
three hours
right because with algorithmic
entertainment what happens is like
youtube is going to suggest things to
you that will keep your mind like
focused in that direction
reddit is like this is the crazy thing i
know this sounds weird but
i want you guys to really think about
this for a second you are tailoring
these websites to pull your attention
towards them right
you're giving them like a cheat code to
keep your attention occupied
so when you log on to reddit and like i
have all of my favorite subreddits that
i'm subscribed to
over time i'm making the website more
addictive to me
youtube this isn't just youtube's fault
it is like
also like your fault because as you
subscribe to more content
it's going to be like more entertaining
right as you watch youtube videos like
youtube's job is to make you
like enjoy like have a good experience
on youtube like you're not going to
like if you open up youtube and like
it's a bunch of nanny vlogs
and you're not interested in that it's
like that's a failure of a website right
so that's they're doing what they're
supposed to do
and it just has this really bizarre
consequence which is that you're
training youtube
to be more predatory towards your
attention
you're making it more addictive by
subscribing to [ __ ]
and if you subscribe to a bunch of
subreddits that you don't like or watch
a bunch of youtube videos and they get
all this crap that you don't care about
posted on your youtube then you're not
going to use the website right
so this is like the really tricky thing
is that when we become bored for a
second this is the real loss
and we get distracted and there's
algorithmic entertainment
boredom plus algorithmic entertainment
means three hours of your life gone and
no productivity
gg go next right
get rekt so the question then becomes
without oh wrong one oh
um
the question then becomes like what do
we do about this right so like once we
slip down this road
we're gone the three hours is the price
that you pay
because reddit is designed youtube is
designed to restrain your attention so
what they're gonna do is
they're gonna take your attention away
from studying
okay because that's what they're gonna
do so then the question becomes
like and then people ask like you know
oh how do i stop watching youtube
like you can't it's going to be really
hard like once your attention is over
here
to like pull your attention back towards
studying
this is going to require a lot of effort
and so then what happens is we look at
people and we say oh my god this person
is so disciplined
because some people can watch youtube
for like 10 minutes and then they go
back to
studying okay so this is study
and so then we say this person is
disciplined
good night what's and then we say i'm
not disciplined
i'm lazy so this is where the lazy
person goes
so question is okay what do you do so
last week we talked about
building conscientiousness okay so how
to become
how to move from lazy to being
disciplined but there's a real
real important secret here which is
right here
because if you can avoid this step
right here then you don't need to be
disciplined
you guys get this and so then the
question
if you can avoid opening up youtube
because once you go
once youtube is open it's designed they
pay like people millions of dollars
like reddit whatever all of these
companies right
um they pay these like they pay millions
of dollars to different engineers to
like make the website more usable by the
users
like creating a good user experience i
don't think that they're like being
you know evil about it that's just like
they're like hey we want to make a
website better
and so the key thing is that once you go
over here you're
you're screwed finished so how do you
avoid this step
and then the answer is to learn to
tolerate boredom
okay so what you guys need is patience
if you're lazy if you're good at sitting
around and not doing anything
that's totally fine we're just gonna
double down on that and let's see what
happens when you do that okay
so i'm studying
then my mind fractures
okay so what happens if i just sit with
it
right you're gonna have all these
thoughts and impulses you're gonna be
thinking about
barbecue then you're gonna be thinking
about gaming
you're going to be thinking about
laundry you're going to be thinking
about how this guy
is such a noob and your mind is kind of
wandering
and then eventually your mind will sort
of start to coalesce
okay it's going to go into this and then
eventually
it's going to go into this and then
it'll go right back here to study
so this is what you guys need to do you
have to understand that your mind
is like a burden flight right so it like
jumps up starts flying all over the
place
and all you have to do is avoid going
into youtube by tolerating boredom
and if you can avoid opening up
something on your computer loading up a
game like loading up whatever reddit
like whatever
right i i use those because that's what
i get distracted with if you can just
learn to sit
with that boredom your mind will
naturally coalesce back into study
it'll happen like sort of effortlessly
all you have to do is learn how to
tolerate that boredom in the middle
and if you think about what's happened
in our society okay so this is kind of
interesting
if you think about what's happened to
our brains how has technology affected
our brains
what technology has done is make us
like weak at tolerating boredom
okay so what it's almost like we're
running around with like electric
wheelchairs for our
mind and then like if you run if you
stop walking and you start using an
electric wheelchair you're going to
decondition
your body to with for physical activity
and walking right
so what have we done our our technology
has deconditioned our mind
to tolerate boredom and just think about
this for a second right like so when
you're in the car it's like podcast time
baby
when i'm cooking it's podcast time i'm
gonna be i'm gonna be productive
this is the danger right so you'll see
these websites where people will talk
about yeah i read a bunch of books
and i like listen to a bunch of audio
books and podcasts and stuff like that
i have entertainment time and then like
you know we're always doing something
our attention is
always on something and we get bored
very very easily and so like you know
having everything at your fingertips on
your phone is like terrible
for your ability to tolerate boredom
and so what's happened is we've become
unable to handle boredom
and as our mind gets weak at handling
boredom we like lose productivity
because then we get lost in these like
apps and stuff
and so everyone who's talking about
productivity you guys got to understand
that
productivity starts with the ability to
tolerate boredom
just that just learn how to be bored
if you can learn how to be bored then
your productivity will go through the
roof
because then in those key moments where
you are
bored and you reach for that thing that
it used to be a five-minute distraction
it used to be a 15-minute distraction it
used to be a 20-minute distraction
now it's a three-hour time commitment
and once you like step into the ring
with like you know
this this algorithm that's designed to
restrain your attention for three or
four
hours you are like way outmatched it's
just your little brain
against hundreds of millions of dollars
worth of like
engineering that is designed to prey on
your neuroscience
you guys are outmatched you can't win
then so the key
is to not step into the ring the way
that you not you don't step into the
ring
is to tolerate border right so like
what does that mean how do i learn
to tolerate boredom so we had a great
exercise that one of our coaching
clients came up and came up with
fantastic and very difficult is to sit
and stare at a wall
for an hour with no distractions
and it is devastatingly difficult but
really cool stuff will happen
very very cool stuff will happen if you
guys just sit at a wall
for an hour i know everyone's like
oh my god one hour of
not doing anything oh my god an entire
hour of doing nothing how am i gonna
tolerate that
right so don't even meditate uh-uh
meditation is doing something
not allowed to meditate just sit in an
hour and sit with yourself
and then your mind is going to do all
kinds of stuff it's going to be like
absolutely crazy for about 20 or 25
minutes
and then it's going to be like really
awesome like the second half if you guys
can make it
like is gonna be amazing because your
mind is gonna like come up with stuff
and it's gonna be like weird and
entertaining
sometimes what'll happen is like
a lot of negativity will come up you'll
start to like realize how bad of a
person you are and like how much of a
failure you are and stuff like that and
everyone's like how do i learn
acceptance like how do i learn to sit
with it that's the way that you learn
how to sit with it
right just sit and look at a wall
for an hour just do nothing and then if
you guys want to you guys can do easy
mode
in easy mode of sitting at the wall is
going for a walk
for also one hour
right so get up and go outside it'll
it'll like feel great like you'll still
be bored
you're going to want to put your
headphones in i want to listen to an
audiobook i want to listen to a podcast
i want to listen to this
i want to do this and like just think
about how much you know there was a time
where like okay so i wake up in the
morning i'd do yoga i'd study
i'd turn on the audio book while i was
showering i'd list be listening while i
was eating
i would you know as soon as i turn it
off like on the computer i pop in my
headphones walking to the subway
on the subway pull out the kindle put
away the kindle back to the audiobook to
the lecture hall listening to the
lecture
trying to listen to the lecture because
it's boring which is really hard because
i've
i've really not trained my attention
well
and then it's like back to the audiobook
a little bit of stuff on the computer
screen phone you know it's like
our our minds are constantly
externalized towards something we rely
on external technological crush
crutches to keep our minds focused on
one thing
and in doing so we have lost the
capacity
to focus our mind where we want it to we
become
victims to the screen right because like
if my the only way i can keep my
attention on something is if it is
entertaining enough
and then what we do is we call ourselves
lazy because we can't get anything done
so where does like where's the lynch pin
to all of this stuff
it is learning to tolerate por
so if you can tolerate boredom
then your mind will listen to you
because what boredom
is is the biggest rebellion of mind
you guys realize like how much you
detest how hard it is to like
be bored it's like imagine so i have a
great idea for you guys okay so just
think about this for a second
so i know people aren't flying right now
because of covet but think about going
on an
international flight with nothing to do
no books
no electronic devices torture
absolute door george eight hours on a
plane with nothing to do
gg think about how much you'd
test that and what is it that you face
when you're on a flight with yourself
with nothing to do what
like what's so bad about that
literally what is so bad about that it
is that your mind has no attention
no nothing to focus its attention
it's just you you're just with yourself
and you're bored with your mind
so if you want to go the marathon route
like take an international flight i mean
don't do it now because of covet
obviously but like
you know think about that for a second
like think about how
how much of a victim you are and how
poorly you
are at tolerating your own company with
just you hanging out by yourself
it's so terrifying terrifying
absolutely terrifying so this is the
cool thing
is that all this stuff can be fixed
right all you have to do is learn to
tolerate boredom
so just kind of going back to that
okay so like oh can't scroll so it all
comes
back to this right here
and if you can learn how to sit still
with this then your mind will naturally
return to focus
right because eventually what will
happen is and if you guys are wondering
about how is that so natural
because your mind hates form right so at
some point your mind is eventually gonna
say
anything i've been sitting on this
flight for six hours with nothing to do
give me a chemistry textbook please
anything to stop having nothing
chemistry physics whatever i'll take
anything anything master please
don't don't make me do this anymore
i give up i'll do whatever you want i'll
even study for my test
please right
because normally you are the slave
and the mind is the master and the goal
of what we do here
is training you to be in charge of the
mind
so i'll leave you guys with one analogy
so in the bhagavad-gita which is sort of
a text on hinduism but
or i mean it's people kind of in hindu
religion
sort of say it's a religious text
whatever there's a lot of good stuff
in in religious texts and especially in
gita
and there's this guy arjun and his
charioteer is this guy named krishna and
krishna says that
arjuna your mind is like a chariot with
like
five horses being like pulling it
your life is going to be successful if
you are in control of the horses
and if the horses are like doing
whatever they want to your life is going
to be a mess
and the horses are essentially your mind
really they're your injuries or your
sense organs
but it's like who's controlling like are
the horses is your mind controlling you
are you controlling your mind
and what you guys really need to do like
if you want to like be productive and
you want to be successful in all that
good stuff
is to have your mind do what you tell it
to do like if you wake up in the morning
and you're like
[ __ ] we're gonna study today and your
mind is like okay
whatever you say but otherwise it's the
other way around it's like your mind is
like one of these
kids who's like a complete spoiled brat
and the kid is like ah
we were gonna do this today yeah i don't
want to study [ __ ] you
i'm gonna play lol all day what are you
gonna do about it mom [ __ ] you
gg
right so learn to be bored and then you
will be successful